# Analysis of livestock Data of Nepal 

## 1\. Data Understanding 

The data provided in second part is of livestock raised across Nepal
according to different district/ regions. We are provided with multiple
csv files which consists of separate data for each livestock. Our main
aim is to clean and merge all the data into a single dataset by using
different methods and perform Exploratory Data Analysis.

### 

## 2\. Initial Analysis

The data sources and merge them into a single data source.

Performing Necessary Cleaning and Merging are mentioned in the scripts
uploaded inside the files section .

In Horse file: It consist of 60 rows of data which has attributes of
District and Horses/Asses in quantity. It describes us about the
district and its horse assess population in numbers.

In mil-animal file: It consists of total 96 rows which has attributes
like District, Milking cows’ number, milking Buffaloes number, Cow milk,
Buff Milk, Total Milk Produced. It gives us information about the
district and their number of milks giving cows, and buffaloes with their
actual total milk production.

Net-meat-production: It consists of total 96 rows with attributes like
Buff, Mutton, Chevon, Pork, Chicken, Duck and total. It describes us
about the total net meat production of different animals for each
district.

Production of cotton: It consists of only 4 rows with some attributes
like

Production of egg: It consists of 96 rows with attributes District,
Laying Hen, Laying Duck, Hen egg, Duck egg, and total. It describes us
about district and its total number of egg producing animals.

Rabbit population: It consists of total 55 rows with rabbit attribute to
describe the total available rabbit for each district.

Wool production: It consists of 96 rows and column attributes as
District, Sheep’s number and Sheep wool produced.

## 3\. Exploratory Data Analysis 

### 3.1 Bar plot analysis of Horse/Asses in Western Development Region of Nepal. 

![Graphical user interface, application, table, Excel Description
automatically generated](media/image1.jpg)

*Figure 75: Code for analysis of Horse/Asses in Western Development
Region of Nepal.*

![Chart Description automatically generated](media/image2.jpg)

*Figure 76: Bar plot analysis of Horse/Asses in Western Development
Region of Nepal.*

In the above bar plot we are showing the western development region of
Nepal and its horse/asses total numbers. The horses/asses from the above
plot shows that the total number is highest in Mustang while the lowest
number of horses/asses are in Parsa and Palpa. The highest number
indicates above 1750 in mustang. The second largest horses/asses number
is available in Baglung, Parbat and kapilbastu.

### 3.2 Bar plot diagram to represent the hen and duck egg production in development regions of Nepal. 

![Graphical user interface, application, table Description automatically
generated](media/image3.jpg)

*Figure 77: Code for hen and duck egg production in development regions
of Nepal.*

![Chart, bar chart Description automatically
generated](media/image4.jpg)

*Figure 78: Bar plot diagram to represent the hen and duck egg
production in development regions of Nepal.*

The above bar plot represents the hen and duck eggs production in
different development regions of Nepal. The green color plot indicates
that duck eggs and pink color represents hen eggs production. Observing
the plots, we can say the duck egg are very minimal as compared with hen
egg production in all the regions of Nepal. The C. Region has the
highest hen egg production whereas the lowest hen gee production is in
FW. Region. The duck egg production is highest in the E. Region and the
lowest duck egg production is in FW. Region.

### 3.3 Pie chart diagram to display the Sheep Wool production according to the development Region of Nepal. 

![A picture containing calendar Description automatically
generated](media/image5.jpg)

*Figure 79: Code for displaying the Sheep Wool production according to
the development Region of Nepal.*

![Chart, pie chart Description automatically
generated](media/image6.jpg)

*Figure 80: Pie chart diagram to display the Sheep Wool production
according to the development Region of Nepal.*

The above pie chart represents the total production of sheep wools in
Nepal's five development regions. The production of wool is larger in
the Mid-Western Region i.e., 50.14% and lower in the Central and Eastern
Region i.e., 9.74% and 9.86% respectively. In the Far Western and
Western Regions, the production of sheep wools is 12.97% and 17.29%
respectively.

### 3.4 Pie chart diagram to display the Yak/Nak/Chauri number according to Development Region. 

![Graphical user interface Description automatically generated with
medium confidence](media/image7.jpg)

*Figure 81: Code to display the Yak/Nak/Chauri number according to
Development Region.*

![Chart, pie chart Description automatically
generated](media/image8.jpg)

*Figure 82: Pie chart diagram to display the Yak/Nak/Chauri number
according to Development Region.*

The above pie chart represents the total population of yak/nak/chauri in
five development regions. The population of yak is larger in the Eastern
Region i.e., 33.12% and lower in the Far-Western Region i.e., 1.30% as
seen in the pie plot above. In the Mid-Western and Western Regions, the
population of yak is 25.81% and 21.545 respectively. In the Center
Region, there are 18.14% yak population.

### 3.5 Bar plot and sub plots to display the milk production in all the categorized regions of Nepal. 

![Graphical user interface Description automatically generated with low
confidence](media/image9.jpg)

*Figure 83: Code to display the milk production in all the categorized
regions of Nepal.*

![Chart, bar chart Description automatically
generated](media/image10.jpg)

![A picture containing text, writing implement, screenshot Description
automatically generated](media/image11.jpg)

*Figure 84: Bar plot and sub plots to display the milk production in all
the categorized regions of Nepal.*

All the above subplots are divided into five different regions of Nepal
as eastern, Central, Western, MidWestern and Far-western regions and
based on three geographical regions of as Mountain region, Hilly region
and Terai region. Analyzing it, we can see that maximum number of milks
is produced in western hill region of Nepal and minimum number of milks
produced in mid-western mountain region of Nepal.

But the capacity of producing milk is high in mid-western hills and
lowest capacity is in western mountain by comparing total number of cows
and buffaloes.

In the last observation bar plot, the regions are categorized as
development region, and we can see that C. Region has the highest number
of milks produced whereas Far-western Region has low number of milk
production.

### 3.6 Line plot to display the Cotton yield in three districts of Nepal. 

![A picture containing graphical user interface Description
automatically generated](media/image12.jpg)

*Figure 85: Code to display the Cotton yield in three districts of
Nepal.*

![A picture containing graphical user interface Description
automatically generated](media/image13.jpg)

*Figure 86: Line plot to display the Cotton yield in three districts of
Nepal.*

The above line plot is plotted from three districts of Nepal that
produces cotton. The area and production capacity of all these districts
are similar while yield varies from one to another. Observing the plots,
we can say that Banke has high yield kg/Ha while comparing with Dang but
Bardiya is almost in the range below of Banke in yield. This line plots
shows maximum yield is in banke while Dang has low yield.

### 3.7 Line plot to display the Rabbit total population as per the regions of Nepal. 

![A picture containing calendar Description automatically
generated](media/image14.jpg)

*Figure 87: Code to display the Rabbit total population as per the
regions of Nepal.*

![Chart, line chart Description automatically generated with medium
confidence](media/image15.jpg)

*Figure 88: Line plot to display the Rabbit total population as per the
regions of Nepal.*

The above line plot is extracted and plotted on basis of total rabbit
populations as per the different regions of Nepal. By observing this
line plots closely, we can see fluctuation in line as development
regions are changed. Starting from beginning, Eastern region and central
all regions have identical number while moving forward to Western and
Mid-Western the plots are constantly increasing in numbers which shows
that maximum number of rabbits is in Mid-Western Regions. Continuing it
the plots are constantly decreasing in Far Western Regions which
indicates lowest number of rabbits.

### 3.8 Heatmap correlation to show the total production of items. 

![Chart, treemap chart Description automatically
generated](media/image16.jpg)

In the above heat map correlation, the color codes used shows us the
strength of each variable for Total Milk Produced, Total Eggs, Total
Meat, and Sheep Wool Produced. If the correlation is strong among the
variables, then the color is black and if the correlation is lowest then
the color will be white and between these the color ranges from dark to
light i.e., 1.0 to 0.

### 3.9 Point plot to show the net meat production in different regions of Nepal. 

![Table Description automatically generated](media/image17.jpg)

*Figure 89: Code to show the net meat production in different regions of
Nepal.*

![Chart, line chart Description automatically
generated](media/image18.jpg)

*Figure 90: Point plot to show the net meat production in different
regions of Nepal.*

The above point plot represents the net meat production according to
five development regions of Nepal. The net meat consists of Buff,
Mutton, Chicken, and chevon meat data which is plotted against the
regions of Nepal. The blue plot represents buff meat which shows the
maximum buff meat is produced in Central Region while the lowest meat
production is in FW Region. The orange plot represents the mutton meat
production which is almost similar in all regions of Nepal. The red
color plots represent the chevon which production is highest in C.
Region and E. Region and lowest in FW. Region. The chicken plot is shows
in green color and the maximum chicken meat production is in C. Region
and lowest in FW. Region. Overall, the plot shows that Maximum meat
production of all animals is in C. Region while lowest is in FW. Region.
